you've been there all through the years
Lucy well actually I have gone home and
Andy and I have taken some vacation one
year we went to bla Bora hey everyone
welcome back to another breakdown of
twin peaks' Greg and Ryan here this is
part 14 of the return now before we get
started make sure to hit that subscribe
button because the universe Channel has
all kinds of good stuff recovering Game
of Thrones recovering Rick and Morty and
of course we got Twin Peaks alright
everyone let's jump right in and talk
about Judy oh damn it not again right
off the top this is my favorite part
I guess not episode their parts so this
is my favorite part of the return so far
I'm a floor guy but you know tell me
what is what is it the did it for you on
this the episode was titled we are like
the dreamer but you can also call this
the Blue Rose episode if you feel
inclined every single scene ends with a
weird blue rose occurrence Cole's dream
and ease trip to the White Lodge Chad's
jail-cell experience Freddy's blood
story Sarah freakin Palmer and even the
Roadhouse seen as a weird vibe to it
what's your mom's team penis
there is also a distinct theme of
storytelling in this episode that goes
with some of those things in particular
there are at least four times the
characters tell stories to other
characters Albert tells the story of the
blue rose case to Tammy Cole describes
his dream about Monica Bellucci Freddy
tells about how he got his pile-driving
green Club and Megan tell Sophie about
the night Billy went missing I think you
could also make the case that there is a
fifth story told when the fireman by the
way he has a name now gets Andy up to
speed on the whole plot so far and that
theme of storytelling has a lot to do
with more building and world building
and I think that like just rests
squarely on the mark frost side of the
Twin Peaks morning part 14 opens with a
phone call from Gordon Cole to sheriff
Truman this begins with what has to be
the most enduringly typical Twin Peaks
interaction between Cole and Lucy
Brennan Cole conversation with Truman is
almost painfully brief given everything
that you should be telling each other
Truman does not pass on any specifics of
their investigation does not mention
major Briggs or his notes and does not
bring up the room 3:15 King only
communicates the discovery of the
missing pages of Laura's diary and quote
to Cooper's something also worth noting
there is that we are still missing a
page with Laura Palmer's diary and
that's starting to feel like a weird
like you know who gaze at this point
like we're supposed to be thinking about
that and then ain't never coming back
it's going to be it's going to be one of
the hanging chads of this series we're
not going to have any idea in any case
to Cooper's dovetails nicely into the
next scene with Albert and Tammy yes
Albert lays out the history of the
terminology of the Blue Rose tracking it
all the way back to a case that Cole and
Phillip Jeffries worked on involving a
woman named Lois
Duffy Blue Rose cases seem to be more
than just weird phenomenon occurrences
such as the x-files and actually deal
with cases involving doppelgangers or s
cami puts it once still alive at Oak
Sona quick Google search a sofa is
defined as theoretical in nature and
originates from Tibetan mythology where
Tobi's are described as extra bodies
that were created from one person's mind
in order to travel to spiritual realms
I also like a lot about that scene is
that the way that Albert talks to Tammy
like he tells the story but then he
asked her what she thinks is the most
important next question and that's sort
of like that mentor style that we
actually saw in fire walk with me with
that with Chuck Desmond and Sam Stanley
in their car ride problem so it's cool
this still has that echoed still feels
like the same show I thought somebody
said that the window washer reminded
them of the way the woodsman move which
is kind of actually almost interesting
enough like there could be some spies
out there trying to figure out what
they're up to and like you know window
washer kind of almost classic you know
bad spy movie like you know trick to
have a window washer out there we find
out that Diane may be the estranged
stepsister of Janie the e stands for
evans apparently okay sure
at this point you can't tell whether or
not okay who's got the upper hand on who
right because they know that she's going
to lead them to Vegas right so at this
point she knows that they are going to
ask her about Vegas yes like can't tell
mr. C has this all planned out in
advance and he knows that he just needs
to get them to Vegas no matter what
right like something else to about this
is that we only got a couple of episodes
left of the show like they can't
dilly-dally a lot more with like trying
to get to Vegas try to get to dougie
there there are 23 Douglas Jones's in
the Las Vegas area and how are the FBI
going to be able to find all of them
don't I and by the way those two guys
they seem like maybe mildly more
confident in the
go brothers we don't know if I'm Motel
like they don't they can't bumble around
for two episodes wait for Prince to come
back in a night like this is it has to
go quick style hmm I knew this was going
to be my favorite episode right Wayne
Gordon Cole says and last night I had
another Monica Bellucci dream I just
sunk into my couching way so to me this
is like this is like David Lynch doing
like a like a David Lynch perfume
commercial as a dream with very like
self-aware recognition that he is now
David Lynch doing David Lynch in a David
Lynch movie like a dream
okay but whose dream is it right that's
the question that's the question she
poses I don't even want to start listing
off names or anything but it obviously
it could be anybody I'll toss a couple
out there okay David Lynch mark frost
those are mine right now the audience us
yeah I'm going outside of the plot on
this one this feels so much more meta
than yeah then just like a plot angle I
think this is almost like Lynch and
Frost like admitting that there's like a
sort of you know self-discovery angle to
the concept in the whole series please
just don't egg on the last seen with
someone waking up from a dream I don't
want that something else Dale Cooper is
there although he can't see Dale safe
not yet and he's able to sort of look
back in time to the moment in fire walk
with me when Phillip Jeffries appears at
the FBI office some very astute viewers
noticed that there is a slight dialog
tweak between the original fire walk
with me scene and the scene in the show
apparently they got a voice actor to do
his lines over what's great about this
is that that moment in fire walk with
man stood out for so long and to like
kind of finally have it recognized again
I think we would we sort of saw this
coming but the last time I watched fire
walk with me that scene was bothering me
and not because like I knew David Bowie
wasn't coming back to the show or
anything like that but it was just this
like he him pointing right at Dale and
saying that was just like okay there's
me it's how much of this did they know
25 years ago last little detail in that
scene is that as Monica Bellucci is
talking she's got her hands in a very
like specific sort of gesture that some
people have pointed out looks like
really good Twin Peaks symbols
okay back up between Peaks Police
Department we start off with the gang
spending Chad up the river and you are
under arrest
[ __ ] so long [ __ ]
next up Truman Hawk Bobby and Andy
finally head into the woods to the
location on major Briggs a secret note
they arrive at Jackrabbits palace and
sit here and think up great tall tales
from there they put the soil in their
pockets and had 253 yards east to the
exact location on the interpreters note
when they arrived it gets really weird
there's a cloud of smoke and a naked
woman lying on the ground
it's the woman with no eyes that Cooper
saw in part 3 according to the credits
her name is na ito the clock hits 253
portal opens up and then we get one of
my favorite scenes of the entire run of
the return and maybe Twin Peaks in
general Andy goes to the White Lodge
and II suddenly has an object in his
hands and smoke forms above his head he
looks up at the ceiling and watches a
neat nothing but the hits Twin Peaks
clip show we get the birth of Bob the
old convenience store with the woodsman
the pain and sorrow brought to the town
of Twin Peaks a picture of Laura and too
dangerous because you know a clip of
Nadeau Cooper mr. C a phone ringing Lucy
and Andy Nadeau again and the electrical
post with the number six from part six
and fire walk with me once everything is
downloaded into Andy's brain he tells
the gang they need to protect me i Ito
we need to get her down the mountain
she's very important and there are
people that want her dead lastly at the
beginning of that sequence when they get
out of the car before they go to jack
rabbits palace there's a humming buzzing
electrical wires and that just got me
thinking like you know electrical wires
are everywhere and they're like spread
out over the landscape and electricity
is like sort of like the evil technology
and it's sort of spreading its tentacles
out over the pristine wilderness
I gave me this kind of sense of dread
where it's like if they're watching over
everything that is everywhere next up we
get Lucy giving Nadeau her pajamas that
were in her locker Chad and another guy
are locked up down there the other guys
at drunk bleeding from his mouth and
mimics everything in the room chad is
basically in his own personal hell which
I think he totally deserved
he has quit policemen a bad name also
something else Thanks
the drunk looks really messed up there's
something really bad about his face and
I like that this is still continuing
that like Cronenberg asked body horror
that like there's the in the continuing
mystery of like what the heck is wrong
with the bodies of people incoming
people drugs you don't know what it is
just yet just when you thought you
finally had the show figure it out we
get a guy with a magic green glove I
know nothing you know nothing at the
Great Northern we find out that James is
a security guard oh and it's his
birthday
well happy birthday Jimmy this is a real
occasion here we meet Freddie Sykes he
has a green rubber glove and apparently
he's destined to be in Twin Peaks once
you've got the glove on to Twin Peaks
Washington United States of America and
then you will find your destiny okay all
right all right yeah
it would be awesome to see Freddie arm
wrestle mr. C or something to that
extent
but the storyline may end with something
very anticlimactic
it just doesn't seem like they would
have a scene where he punches mr. C or
something weird happens I think it's
going to be something completely
different than anything we think well he
probably won't take out mr. C but he
could get Chantelle or hutch or
something like that but I gotta admit I
the very first thing I thought about was
arm rest until our starting positions
more comfortable the scene also raises a
few nagging questions if the fireman
could open a vortex in some random
London alleyway what is up with this
epic search for coordinates over the
entire season and up to the last 25
years at some point wouldn't major
Briggs ask a fireman can you hook me up
with a portal to over here or over there
furthermore if the fireman could talk to
this London party animal so succinctly
and clearly why the esta T speaking
codes and riddles to Dale and in wild
confusing imagery - Andy
and further furthermore what's with this
elaborate plan to convince this kid from
England to go to Twin Peaks wouldn't it
be simpler to find a dopey party animal
in Twin Peaks and lead them to a much
closer green gardening glove the message
is so straightforward but the plan is so
convoluted how do we even know that he
saw the actual fireman I mean this is
more the mo of Duncan Tod modus operandi
anyway
this part ends with James checking out
the furnace room where we again hear the
mysterious ringing sound of the Great
Northern Hotel people have fairly
pointed out that this would be the
furnace room at the end of the European
version of the clink teks pilot for Dale
Cooper and sheriff Harry Truman finds
Bob who is murdered by Mike and now for
our weekly check-in with Sarah Palmer
we're cool it's all good you know what
you have a nice night in short Sarah
Palmer Gore is a truck driver at the
Elks Point number nine bar shortly
before that she does a Laura Palmer
style face-off revealing a swirling
cloud of electricity a hand with a
darkened spirit mount finger and a
spooky grin going back to the sort of
Blue Rose theme of the episode I'm
starting to think that there could be
two Sara Palmer's like there is a
hysterical panic frightened Sarah Palmer
and then we also see the Sarah Palmer
who is cold calculating and now can not
someone's neck off yeah sure is a
mystery could it be that the thing in
Sarah Palmer's kitchen is Sarah Palmer I
kept watching that boxing scene over and
over just to see if there were two
different set of Palmer's that are
walking in and out of that room Candell
couldn't tell but we do know now really
conclusively that there is something way
scarier
mr. see ya in the show part 14 closes
out with yet another detached scene at
the Roadhouse however this time the two
women Megan and Sophie are talking about
the missing filly and to a lesser extent
Paula's sweater which Megan borrowed or
stole the main thing here is that Megan
gives the glory account of the night
Billy went missing there was blood
coming out of nose and mouth he goes and
hangs his head in the sink such as
gushing like a waterfall the ties us
together even more is that Megan says
her mom is named Tina which we can infer
is the Tina who Charlie called in part
13 that would make Chuck Megan's uncle
not Tina's husband for everybody trying
to make sense of the Roadhouse Audrey
Horne plot Charlie all right guys we're
going to get into Easter eggs and some
theories we have and a few comments too
many people noticed in the closing
credits that this episode was dedicated
to David Bowie and to me I hate to say
this I think that means we're not
getting any new Chloe material you know
they they pulled an old shot out of fire
walk with me and that's what they use
and they chose this time to dedicate the
episode to him I think that's what we're
getting another thing that I liked was
at the beginning of the Twin Peaks
Police Department scene at the very
beginning Andy is perfectly arranging
these matching Twin Peaks Police
Department lunch boxes and they bring in
a box of sandwiches from the Double R
diner and he's just he's placing the
sandwiches out and saying exactly what
they are and that just made me think
instantly of the scene in 2001 where
they're going out to the Tycho crater to
see the monolith and these guys who know
nothing about what is happening and
there's like hapless twits all they're
talking about is how good the sandwiches
are in space it just reminded me of that
also that Jackrabbits palace would seem
felt a lot like Wizard of Oz which hey
makes sense for this episode we already
had David Bowie like we said before from
the fire walk with me seen my favorite
line of that whole entire thing is I'm
not going to talk about Jude in fact
we're not going to talk about Judy at
all we're going to keep her out
Gordon to this day until Frost and Lynch
tell us otherwise many fans and I have
theorized that the Judy he's talking
about is Judy Garland aka his nickname
for Garland bricks that make sense girl
OH
[Music]
jeweler's garland hands he doesn't wanna
talk about Judy because the guy writes
their next film he assumes is mr. Steve
flash bomb and not Dale Cooper he'll god
damn baby I found something something
cool from Ramone to rent a on Twitter
Andy's little wooden memory box that he
gets from the fireman actually seems to
resemble some of Lynch's artwork from
the past actually you should just go
over to his Twitter we've put it in the
description there's a lot of comparisons
of Lynch's art to parts of Twin Peaks
return ya when you're done here go
straight to that it's pretty freakin
awesome the Jambo one in the YouTube
comments says after watching this
episode with Audrey I personally believe
Lynch is not just rearranging these
timelines and sequences but showing
different dimensions a sort of
subconscious and conscious in Twin Peaks
I specifically think about how the
people in the diner are changed just in
a frame during that credit scene also
one of the different frames including
the missing Billie storyline like in
Audrey scenes I have a hunch that Audrey
scenes are not based in reality and the
corresponding storyline during the diner
scene makes me also believe that some
scenes in Twin Peaks are not based in
reality this is actually kind of a good
point which is that most of the time
when we've been talking about the
different timelines we've been talking
about where events occur in relation to
each other and the idea that there
actually are like there is a conscious
and a subconscious to the town or that
there are different dimensions actually
take things to a different level that is
totally plausible Coffee time
thanks everybody for watching that we
only have four episodes left we'll see
you all next week
again if we missed anything let us know
in the comment section down below and
you can only set us up on Twitter
throughout the week even leading up to
the next episode our handles are in the
description below later guys